docs/concepts/cloning.md, before:

---
title: "Ondat Cloning"
linkTitle: "Ondat Cloning"
weight: 1
---

## Overview

> 💡 This feature is available in release `v2.10.0` or greater.

The Ondat Cloning feature enables the user to create a new volume which is pre-populated with a copy of the data from an existing volume.

### What is a Clone?

A clone is a duplicate of an existing Kubernetes volume that is its own unique volume on the system and can be consumed as any standard volume would be. However, with a clone, the data from a separate source is duplicated to the destination (clone). A clone is similar to a snapshot in that it's a point in time copy of a volume, however rather than creating a new snapshot object from a volume, we're instead creating a new independent volume, sometimes thought of as pre-populating the newly created volume.

### Why use Cloning?

Cloning is very useful when you need to copy the data from one persistent volume to another. For example there could be an application error where an issue is caused by a data quality issue. Being able to copy the contents of a volume and debug this without affecting the running application can be extremely useful when attempting to fix such issues.

### How Does It Work?

The Kubernetes [Volume Cloning](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volume-pvc-datasource/) feature provides users with a mechanism to create a clone volume from an existing source volume.

For more information, see [How to Clone a Volume](/docs/operations/how-to-clone-a-volume).

### Current Scope & Limitations

The Ondat Cloning feature has the following limitations:

1. Cloning volumes across namespaces is not supported.
1. A clone volume must be the same size as the source volume which it is attempting to clone.
1. A clone volume must have the same filesystem as the source volume which it is attempting to clone.

Commit message:

move features to technical preview

docs/concepts/cloning.md, after:

---
title: "Ondat Cloning"
linkTitle: "Ondat Cloning"
weight: 1
---

## Overview

  > ⚠️ This is a tech preview, we only recommend using this feature on your test clusters

> 💡 This feature is available in release `v2.10.0` or greater.

The Ondat Cloning feature enables the user to create a new volume which is pre-populated with a copy of the data from an existing volume.

### What is a Clone?

A clone is a duplicate of an existing Kubernetes volume that is its own unique volume on the system and can be consumed as any standard volume would be. However, with a clone, the data from a separate source is duplicated to the destination (clone). A clone is similar to a snapshot in that it's a point in time copy of a volume, however rather than creating a new snapshot object from a volume, we're instead creating a new independent volume, sometimes thought of as pre-populating the newly created volume.

### Why use Cloning?

Cloning is very useful when you need to copy the data from one persistent volume to another. For example there could be an application error where an issue is caused by a data quality issue. Being able to copy the contents of a volume and debug this without affecting the running application can be extremely useful when attempting to fix such issues.

### How Does It Work?

The Kubernetes [Volume Cloning](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volume-pvc-datasource/) feature provides users with a mechanism to create a clone volume from an existing source volume.

For more information, see [How to Clone a Volume](/docs/operations/how-to-clone-a-volume).

### Current Scope & Limitations

The Ondat Cloning feature has the following limitations:

1. Cloning volumes across namespaces is not supported.
1. A clone volume must be the same size as the source volume which it is attempting to clone.
1. A clone volume must have the same filesystem as the source volume which it is attempting to clone.
