docs/prerequisites/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Prerequisites"
linkTitle: "Prerequisites"
weight: 300
description: >
  Key prerequisites and system requirements to deploy Ondat.
---

## Overview

- This page provides information on the requirements that are required to successfully run Ondat on your container orchestrator. Ensure that you have met the requirements before attempting to do an Ondat deployment.

## System Requirements

### Hardware

- For Ondat to successfully pool the attached storage disks in a Kubernetes cluster, an Ondat daemonset will be deployed where each pod will run on **worker nodes**:

**Number Of Worker Nodes (Virtual or Bare-metal)**

| **Minimum** | **Recommended** |
| ----------- | --------------- |
| `3`         | `5 or more`     |

- Each worker node in cluster where Ondat will be deployed, should meet the following hardware requirements:

**Node Hardware Requirements**

| **Requirement**                      | **Minimum** | **Recommended** |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------- | --------------- |
| CPU                                  | `2 Cores`   | `4 Cores`       |
| Memory                               | `4 GB`      | `8 GB`          |
| Disk Storage (`/var/lib/storageos/`) | `1 GiB`     | `Unlimited`     |

### Architecture

| **Name**                                                | **Supported** |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| [x86-64 (64)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64) bit | `Yes`         |
| [arm64](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AArch64) bit      | `Coming Soon` |

### Linux Kernel

- Below is the list supported Linux kernel versions and the maximum number of active volumes that can run per node in an Ondat cluster:

| **Kernel Version** | **Maximum Number Of Active Volumes Per Node Allowed** |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `3.x.x`            | `256`                                                 |
| `4.x.x`            | `4096`                                                |
| `5.x.x`            | `4096`                                                |
| `6.x.x`            | `4096`                                                |

### Required Kernel Modules

- Ondat requires the open source [LinuxIO (LIO) SCSI target](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LIO_(SCSI_target)) engine that has been built into the Linux kernel mainline, since [kernel version 2.6.38](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_kernel_version_history#Releases_2.6.x.y).  
- Below are the following kernel modules that are required to be loaded on your worker nodes operating system where Ondat will be deployed:

| **Kernel Modules** |
| ------------------ |
| `configfs`         |
| `target_core_mod`  |
| `target_core_user` |
| `tcm_loop`         |
| `uio`              |

> ⚠️ You cannot concurrently run Ondat and other applications that utilise [TCMU](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/target/tcmu-design.txt). Doing so will result in data loss and corruption. On startup, Ondat will automatically detect if there are other applications that utilise TCMU to avoid data loss and corruption.

- Once the kernel modules are available, during the deployment process - Ondat will run an [init container](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers/) which conducts preflight checks to ensure that the kernel modules are loaded and ready to be used by the Ondat daemonset that runs on each worker node.

### Operating System

- Below is the following list of current Linux distributions (non-EOL) that are supported by Ondat:

| **Name**                                                                                                    | **Linux Distribution Support Notes**                                                                              |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`Amazon Linux 2022 (AL2022)`](https://aws.amazon.com/linux/amazon-linux-2022/)                             | Yes - (Available from the **11th of November 2022** release on kernel `5.4.219-126.411.amzn2.x86_64` or greater). |
| [`Bottlerocket`](https://aws.amazon.com/bottlerocket/)                                                      | Yes - ([Snapshots feature](https://docs.ondat.io/docs/concepts/snapshots/) is currently unavailable).             |
| [`CentOS`](https://www.centos.org/)                                                                         | Yes.                                                                                                              |
| [`Debian`](https://www.debian.org/)                                                                         | Yes.                                                                                                              |
| [`Fedora`](https://getfedora.org/)                                                                          | Yes.                                                                                                              |
| [`Google Container-Optimized OS (COS)`](https://cloud.google.com/container-optimized-os/)                   | Yes - (The required kernel modules are available, but the distribution has not undergone exhaustive testing yet). |
| [`openSUSE`](https://www.opensuse.org/)                                                                     | Yes.                                                                                                              |
| [`RedHat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)`](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/linux-platforms/enterprise-linux) | Yes.                                                                                                              |
| [`SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES)`](https://www.suse.com/products/server/)                              | Yes.                                                                                                              |
| [`Ubuntu`](https://ubuntu.com/)                                                                             | Yes.                                                                                                              |

> 💡 As a general rule of thumb, Ondat is agnostic and will run on any Linux distribution as long as the [required kernel modules prerequisites](#required-kernel-modules) are available and can be successfully loaded. In most modern Linux distributions, the key kernel modules are distributed as part of the default Linux kernel packages. In some older distributions, the kernel modules were part of the kernel `extras` package that needed to be installed separately.

> 💡 If you need help with a specific issue with one of the listed distributions we support, [raise an issue up on GitHub](https://github.com/ondat/documentation/issues) or reach out to us through our [Community Slack](https://slack.storageos.com/).

Commit message:

added Linux Asynchronous I/O (AIO) section

docs/prerequisites/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Prerequisites"
linkTitle: "Prerequisites"
weight: 300
description: >
  Key prerequisites and system requirements to deploy Ondat.
---

## Overview

- This page provides information on the requirements that are required to successfully run Ondat on your container orchestrator. Ensure that you have met the requirements before attempting to do an Ondat deployment.

## System Requirements

### Hardware

- For Ondat to successfully pool the attached storage disks in a Kubernetes cluster, an Ondat daemonset will be deployed where each pod will run on **worker nodes**:

**Number Of Worker Nodes (Virtual or Bare-metal)**

| **Minimum** | **Recommended** |
| ----------- | --------------- |
| `3`         | `5` or greater  |

- Each worker node in cluster where Ondat will be deployed, should meet the following hardware requirements:

**Node Hardware Requirements**

| **Requirement**                      | **Minimum** | **Recommended** |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------- | --------------- |
| CPU                                  | `2 Cores`   | `4 Cores`       |
| Memory                               | `4 GB`      | `8 GB`          |
| Disk Storage (`/var/lib/storageos/`) | `1 GiB`     | `Unlimited`     |

### Architecture

| **Name**                                                | **Supported** |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| [x86-64 (64)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64) bit | `Yes`         |
| [arm64](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AArch64) bit      | `Coming Soon` |

### Linux Kernel

- Below is the list supported Linux kernel versions and the maximum number of active volumes that can run per node in an Ondat cluster:

| **Kernel Version** | **Maximum Number Of Active Volumes Per Node Allowed** |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `3.x.x`            | `256`                                                 |
| `4.x.x`            | `4096`                                                |
| `5.x.x`            | `4096`                                                |
| `6.x.x`            | `4096`                                                |

### Linux Asynchronous I/O (AIO)

- When the Ondat Data plane component is operational, Ondat leverages [Linux Asynchronous I/O (AIO)](https://developer.ibm.com/articles/l-async/) contexts to initiate a number of I/O requests without having to block or wait for any to complete to process the next task - thus allowing you to boost performance for applications that are able to simultaneously overlap processing and I/O.
- The Linux kernel uses the [`/proc/sys/fs/aio-max-nr`](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/sysctl/fs.txt) virtual file to set the value of the maximum number of *allowable* AIO concurrent requests. The `/proc/sys/fs/aio-nr` virtual file also provides information on the current number of asynchronous requests on the node.
- Ondat requires `4` AIO contexts per deployed volume, whether it is a master or replica volume.
  - Trying to provision additional volumes once the `aio-nr` value reaches the `aio-max-nr`, will cause a `io_setup` system call to fail and return a [`EAGAIN` error](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/sysctl/fs.txt), meaning that the resource becomes temporarily unavailable.
- Therefore, if your nodes `aio-max-nr` kernel parameter value is less than `1048576`, a strong recommendation will be to set a new value in your `/etc/sysctl.conf` or through a custom configuration file in `/etc/sysctl.d/` to increase the number of AIO contexts that can be requested:

| Kernel Parameter | Value     |
| ---------------- | --------- |
| `fs.aio-max-nr`  | `1048576` |

### Required Kernel Modules

- Ondat requires the open source [LinuxIO (LIO) SCSI target](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LIO_(SCSI_target)) engine that has been built into the Linux kernel mainline, since [kernel version 2.6.38](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_kernel_version_history#Releases_2.6.x.y).  
- Below are the following kernel modules that are required to be loaded on your worker nodes operating system where Ondat will be deployed:

| **Kernel Modules** |
| ------------------ |
| `configfs`         |
| `target_core_mod`  |
| `target_core_user` |
| `tcm_loop`         |
| `uio`              |

> ⚠️ You cannot concurrently run Ondat and other applications that utilise [TCMU](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/target/tcmu-design.txt). Doing so will result in data loss and corruption. On startup, Ondat will automatically detect if there are other applications that utilise TCMU to avoid data loss and corruption.

- Once the kernel modules are available, during the deployment process - Ondat will run an [init container](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers/) which conducts preflight checks to ensure that the kernel modules are loaded and ready to be used by the Ondat daemonset that runs on each worker node.

### Operating System

- Below is the following list of current Linux distributions (non-EOL) that are supported by Ondat:

| **Name**                                                                                                    | **Linux Distribution Support Notes**                                                                              |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`Amazon Linux 2022 (AL2022)`](https://aws.amazon.com/linux/amazon-linux-2022/)                             | Yes - (Available from the **11th of November 2022** release on kernel `5.4.219-126.411.amzn2.x86_64` or greater). |
| [`Bottlerocket`](https://aws.amazon.com/bottlerocket/)                                                      | Yes - ([Snapshots feature](https://docs.ondat.io/docs/concepts/snapshots/) is currently unavailable).             |
| [`CentOS`](https://www.centos.org/)                                                                         | Yes.                                                                                                              |
| [`Debian`](https://www.debian.org/)                                                                         | Yes.                                                                                                              |
| [`Fedora`](https://getfedora.org/)                                                                          | Yes.                                                                                                              |
| [`Google Container-Optimized OS (COS)`](https://cloud.google.com/container-optimized-os/)                   | Yes - (The required kernel modules are available, but the distribution has not undergone exhaustive testing yet). |
| [`openSUSE`](https://www.opensuse.org/)                                                                     | Yes.                                                                                                              |
| [`RedHat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)`](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/linux-platforms/enterprise-linux) | Yes.                                                                                                              |
| [`SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES)`](https://www.suse.com/products/server/)                              | Yes.                                                                                                              |
| [`Ubuntu`](https://ubuntu.com/)                                                                             | Yes.                                                                                                              |

> 💡 As a general rule of thumb, Ondat is agnostic and will run on any Linux distribution as long as the [required kernel modules prerequisites](#required-kernel-modules) are available and can be successfully loaded. In most modern Linux distributions, the key kernel modules are distributed as part of the default Linux kernel packages. In some older distributions, the kernel modules were part of the kernel `extras` package that needed to be installed separately.

> 💡 If you need help with a specific issue with one of the listed distributions we support, [raise an issue up on GitHub](https://github.com/ondat/documentation/issues) or reach out to us through our [Community Slack](https://slack.storageos.com/).

## Container Orchestrators

### Supported Kubernetes Distributions

### Container Runtimes
