docs/install/amazon-web-services-eks.md, before:

---
title: "Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)"
linkTitle: "Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)"
weight: 1
---

## Overview

> 💡 This page has an example installation using [eksctl](https://eksctl.io/) to get started quickly and easily. For a declarative installation with [Amazon EKS Blueprints for Terraform](https://github.com/aws-ia/terraform-aws-eks-blueprints), refer to our [getting-started blueprint](https://github.com/ondat/terraform-eksblueprints-ondat-addon/tree/main/blueprints/getting-started) for the Ondat EKS Blueprints addon.

This guide will demonstrate how to install Ondat onto an [Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/) cluster using the [Ondat kubectl plugin](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/).

## Prerequisites

> ⚠️ Make sure you have met the minimum resource requirements for Ondat to successfully run. Review the main [Ondat prerequisites](/docs/prerequisites/) page for more information.

> ⚠️ Make sure the following CLI utilities are installed on your local machine and are available in your `$PATH`:

* [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)
* [kubectl-storageos](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/)
* [aws](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/)
* [eksctl](https://eksctl.io/), at least version `>=0.83.0`

> ⚠️ Make sure to add an [Ondat licence](/docs/operations/licensing/) after installing.

> ⚠️ Make sure you have a running EKS cluster with a minimum of 3 worker nodes and the sufficient [Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) permissions to deploy and manage applications in the cluster.

> ⚠️ Make sure your EKS clusters use [Ubuntu for EKS](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/docs/aws/eks/) as the default node operating system with an optimised kernel. For kernel versions below `linux-aws-5.4.0-1066.69` or `linux-aws-5.13.0-1014.15`, the module `tcm_loop` is not included in the base kernel distribution. In that case, the package `linux-modules-extra-$(uname -r)` is additionally required on each of the nodes - this can be installed automatically by adding extra steps to the node's user data.

> To find the latest Ubuntu for EKS AMI, search your region for the image:

```bash
export AWS_REGION="eu-west-2" # Insert your preferred region here
aws ec2 describe-images \
--filters "Name=owner-id,Values=099720109477" "Name=architecture,Values=x86_64" "Name=root-device-type,Values=ebs" "Name=virtualization-type,Values=hvm" \
--query 'Images[?contains(Name, `ubuntu-eks`)] | [?contains(Name, `testing`) == `false`] | [?contains(Name, `minimal`) == `false`] | [?contains(Name, `hvm-ssd`) == `true`] | sort_by(@, &CreationDate)| [-1].ImageId' \
--output text \
--region "$AWS_REGION"
```

> In this example, we have used [eksctl](https://eksctl.io/introduction/) to create a cluster with 3 nodes of size `t3.large` running Ubuntu for EKS in the `eu-west-2` region. We have provided `100 GB` of disk space for each node. Note that by default, Ondat will store data locally in the node's file system under the path `/var/lib/storageos` on each node in [hyperconverged mode](/docs/concepts/nodes/#hyperconverged-mode).

> In a production infrastructure, we would create multiple Elastic Block Store (EBS) Volumes tweaked for performance or use ephemeral SSD storage and [mount our volumes under data device directories](/docs/concepts/volumes/) with some additions to user data. We would also implement some form of snapshots or backup of these underlying volumes to ensure continuity in a disaster scenario.

```yaml
# cluster.yaml
---
apiVersion: eksctl.io/v1alpha5
kind: ClusterConfig

metadata:
  name: ondat-cluster
  region: eu-west-2

addons:
  - name: aws-ebs-csi-driver

iam:
  withOIDC: true

managedNodeGroups:
  - name: ondat-ng
    minSize: 3
    maxSize: 3
    instanceType: t3.large
    ami: ami-0cb2cb474d9e4e075
    labels: {ondat: node}
    volumeSize: 100
    volumeName: /dev/xvda
    volumeEncrypted: true
    disableIMDSv1: true
    iam:
      withAddonPolicies:
        ebs: true
    overrideBootstrapCommand: |
      #!/bin/bash
      mkdir -p /var/lib/storageos
      echo "/dev/nvme1n1 /var/lib/storageos ext4 defaults,discard 0 1" >> /etc/fstab
      mkfs.ext4 /dev/nvme1n1
      mount /var/lib/storageos
      /etc/eks/bootstrap.sh ondat-cluster
```

```bash
eksctl create cluster --config-file=cluster.yaml
```

> ⚠️ With the above configuration, volumes will be deleted when the nodes they
> are attached to are terminated. Be sure to keep snapshots, for example by using
> [Data Lifecycle Manager](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/storage/automating-amazon-ebs-snapshot-and-ami-management-using-amazon-dlm/)

## Procedure

First, provision your `kubeconfig` for `kubectl` and test that you can connect to Kubernetes:

```bash
aws eks update-kubeconfig --region "$AWS_REGION" --name ondat-cluster
kubectl get nodes
```

If you receive the message `No resources found` or see nodes marked as `NotReady`, wait for 2-3 minutes in order for your nodes to transition to `Ready` and check again to ensure they are running before proceeding through the next steps.

### Step 1 - Conducting Preflight Checks

* Run the following command to conduct preflight checks against the EKS cluster to ensure that Ondat prerequisites are in place before continuing with installation.

```bash
kubectl storageos preflight
```

### Step 2 - Installing Ondat

1. Define and export the `STORAGEOS_USERNAME` and `STORAGEOS_PASSWORD` environment variables that will be used to manage your Ondat instance.
2. Set the `StorageClass` for etcd to use.

> 💡 This cannot be Ondat, as Ondat is dependent upon etcd. On AWS EKS, we suggest `gp3` for a good balance of performance and resilience, or `io2` where top performance is essential.

> 💡 The default `StorageClass` in EKS is `gp2` which is not recommended, instead we will create a `gp3` `StorageClass` and set it as default, at least until we install Ondat:

```bash
kubectl create -f - <<EOF
kind: StorageClass
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: gp3
  annotations:
    storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class: "true"
allowVolumeExpansion: true
provisioner: ebs.csi.aws.com
volumeBindingMode: WaitForFirstConsumer
parameters:
  type: gp3
EOF
```

> 💡 This `StorageClass` requires the AWS EBS EKS addon we specified in the `eksctl` cluster configuration above

```bash
export STORAGEOS_USERNAME="storageos"
export STORAGEOS_PASSWORD="storageos"
export ETCD_STORAGECLASS="gp3"
```

2. Run the following  `kubectl-storageos` plugin command to install Ondat.

```bash
kubectl storageos install \
  --include-etcd \
  --etcd-tls-enabled \
  --etcd-storage-class="$ETCD_STORAGECLASS" \
  --admin-username="$STORAGEOS_USERNAME" \
  --admin-password="$STORAGEOS_PASSWORD"
```

* The installation process may take a few minutes.

### Step 3 - Verifying Ondat Installation

* Run the following `kubectl` commands to inspect Ondat's resources (the core components should all be in a `RUNNING` status)

```bash
kubectl get all --namespace=storageos
kubectl get all --namespace=storageos-etcd
kubectl get storageclasses | grep "storageos"
```

### Step 4 - Applying a Licence to the Cluster

> ⚠️ Newly installed Ondat clusters must be licensed within 24 hours. Our Community Edition tier supports up to 1 TiB of provisioned storage.

To obtain a licence, follow the instructions on our [licensing operations](/docs/operations/licensing) page.

Commit message:

Pass the EBS CSI driver installation to the AWS install page

docs/install/amazon-web-services-eks.md, after:

---
title: "Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)"
linkTitle: "Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)"
weight: 1
---

## Overview

> 💡 This page has an example installation using [eksctl](https://eksctl.io/) to get started quickly and easily. For a declarative installation with [Amazon EKS Blueprints for Terraform](https://github.com/aws-ia/terraform-aws-eks-blueprints), refer to our [getting-started blueprint](https://github.com/ondat/terraform-eksblueprints-ondat-addon/tree/main/blueprints/getting-started) for the Ondat EKS Blueprints addon.

This guide will demonstrate how to install Ondat onto an [Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/) cluster using the [Ondat kubectl plugin](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/).

## Prerequisites

> ⚠️ Make sure you have met the minimum resource requirements for Ondat to successfully run. Review the main [Ondat prerequisites](/docs/prerequisites/) page for more information.

> ⚠️ Make sure the following CLI utilities are installed on your local machine and are available in your `$PATH`:

* [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)
* [kubectl-storageos](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/)
* [aws](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/)
* [eksctl](https://eksctl.io/), at least version `>=0.83.0`

> ⚠️ Make sure to add an [Ondat licence](/docs/operations/licensing/) after installing.

> ⚠️ Make sure you have a running EKS cluster with a minimum of 3 worker nodes and the sufficient [Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) permissions to deploy and manage applications in the cluster.

> ⚠️ Make sure your EKS clusters use [Ubuntu for EKS](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/docs/aws/eks/) as the default node operating system with an optimised kernel. For kernel versions below `linux-aws-5.4.0-1066.69` or `linux-aws-5.13.0-1014.15`, the module `tcm_loop` is not included in the base kernel distribution. In that case, the package `linux-modules-extra-$(uname -r)` is additionally required on each of the nodes - this can be installed automatically by adding extra steps to the node's user data.

> To find the latest Ubuntu for EKS AMI, search your region for the image:

```bash
export AWS_REGION="eu-west-2" # Insert your preferred region here
aws ec2 describe-images \
--filters "Name=owner-id,Values=099720109477" "Name=architecture,Values=x86_64" "Name=root-device-type,Values=ebs" "Name=virtualization-type,Values=hvm" \
--query 'Images[?contains(Name, `ubuntu-eks`)] | [?contains(Name, `testing`) == `false`] | [?contains(Name, `minimal`) == `false`] | [?contains(Name, `hvm-ssd`) == `true`] | sort_by(@, &CreationDate)| [-1].ImageId' \
--output text \
--region "$AWS_REGION"
```

> In this example, we have used [eksctl](https://eksctl.io/introduction/) to create a cluster with 3 nodes of size `t3.large` running Ubuntu for EKS in the `eu-west-2` region. We have provided `100 GB` of disk space for each node. Note that by default, Ondat will store data locally in the node's file system under the path `/var/lib/storageos` on each node in [hyperconverged mode](/docs/concepts/nodes/#hyperconverged-mode).

> In a production infrastructure, we would create multiple Elastic Block Store (EBS) Volumes tweaked for performance or use ephemeral SSD storage and [mount our volumes under data device directories](/docs/concepts/volumes/) with some additions to user data. We would also implement some form of snapshots or backup of these underlying volumes to ensure continuity in a disaster scenario.

```yaml
# cluster.yaml
---
apiVersion: eksctl.io/v1alpha5
kind: ClusterConfig

metadata:
  name: ondat-cluster
  region: eu-west-2

addons:
  - name: aws-ebs-csi-driver

iam:
  withOIDC: true

managedNodeGroups:
  - name: ondat-ng
    minSize: 3
    maxSize: 3
    instanceType: t3.large
    ami: ami-0cb2cb474d9e4e075
    labels: {ondat: node}
    volumeSize: 100
    volumeName: /dev/xvda
    volumeEncrypted: true
    disableIMDSv1: true
    iam:
      withAddonPolicies:
        ebs: true
    overrideBootstrapCommand: |
      #!/bin/bash
      mkdir -p /var/lib/storageos
      echo "/dev/nvme1n1 /var/lib/storageos ext4 defaults,discard 0 1" >> /etc/fstab
      mkfs.ext4 /dev/nvme1n1
      mount /var/lib/storageos
      /etc/eks/bootstrap.sh ondat-cluster
```

```bash
eksctl create cluster --config-file=cluster.yaml
```

> ⚠️ With the above configuration, volumes will be deleted when the nodes they
> are attached to are terminated. Be sure to keep snapshots, for example by using
> [Data Lifecycle Manager](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/storage/automating-amazon-ebs-snapshot-and-ami-management-using-amazon-dlm/)

## Procedure

First, provision your `kubeconfig` for `kubectl` and test that you can connect to Kubernetes:

```bash
aws eks update-kubeconfig --region "$AWS_REGION" --name ondat-cluster
kubectl get nodes
```

If you receive the message `No resources found` or see nodes marked as `NotReady`, wait for 2-3 minutes in order for your nodes to transition to `Ready` and check again to ensure they are running before proceeding through the next steps.

### Step 1 - Conducting Preflight Checks

* Run the following command to conduct preflight checks against the EKS cluster to ensure that Ondat prerequisites are in place before continuing with installation.

```bash
kubectl storageos preflight
```

### Step 2 - Installing Ondat

1. Define and export the `STORAGEOS_USERNAME` and `STORAGEOS_PASSWORD` environment variables that will be used to manage your Ondat instance.
1. Set the `StorageClass` for etcd to use.

    If you used the `eksctl` cluster configuration defined above, the gp3 storage
    class is available so you can skip to the next step. Otherwise you can set up
    the EBS CSI Driver as follows. It is important to note that the Ondat etcd
    usage of disk depends on the size of the Kubernetes cluster. However, it is
    recommended that the disks have at least 800 IOPS at any point in time. The
    best cost effective storage class that fulfils such requirements is gp3. If gp2
    is used, it is paramount to use a volume bigger than 256Gi as it will have
    enough IOPS even when the burstable credits are exhausted.

    To use a gp3 storage class in Kubernetes it is required to install the Amazon
    CSI Driver. Follow [this
    guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/ebs-csi.html) to
    install. The procedure is comprehended by the following steps:

    * Create IAM permissions <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/csi-iam-role.html>
    * Install the CSI driver
      * [Using EKS addon](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/managing-ebs-csi.html)
      * [Using self-managed add on](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-ebs-csi-driver/blob/master/docs/install.md) (AWS clusters, but not in EKS)

    ```bash
    export STORAGEOS_USERNAME="storageos"
    export STORAGEOS_PASSWORD="storageos"
    export ETCD_STORAGECLASS="gp3"
    ```

1. Run the following  `kubectl-storageos` plugin command to install Ondat.

```bash
kubectl storageos install \
  --include-etcd \
  --etcd-tls-enabled \
  --etcd-storage-class="$ETCD_STORAGECLASS" \
  --admin-username="$STORAGEOS_USERNAME" \
  --admin-password="$STORAGEOS_PASSWORD"
```

* The installation process may take a few minutes.

### Step 3 - Verifying Ondat Installation

* Run the following `kubectl` commands to inspect Ondat's resources (the core components should all be in a `RUNNING` status)

```bash
kubectl get all --namespace=storageos
kubectl get all --namespace=storageos-etcd
kubectl get storageclasses | grep "storageos"
```

### Step 4 - Applying a Licence to the Cluster

> ⚠️ Newly installed Ondat clusters must be licensed within 24 hours. Our Community Edition tier supports up to 1 TiB of provisioned storage.

To obtain a licence, follow the instructions on our [licensing operations](/docs/operations/licensing) page.
