docs/install/google-kubernetes-engine-gke.md, before:

---
title: "Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)"
linkTitle: "Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)"
weight: 1
---

## Overview

This guide will demonstrate how to install Ondat onto a [Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine) cluster using the [Ondat kubectl plugin](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/).

## Prerequisites

> ⚠️ Make sure you have met the minimum resource requirements for Ondat to successfully run. Review the main [Ondat prerequisites](/docs/prerequisites/) page for more information.

> ⚠️ Make sure the following CLI utilities are installed on your local machine and are available in your `$PATH`:

* [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)
* [kubectl-storageos](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/)

> ⚠️ Make sure to add an [Ondat licence](/docs/operations/licensing/) after installing.

> ⚠️ Make sure you have a running GKE cluster with a minimum of 3 worker nodes and the sufficient [Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) permissions to deploy and manage applications in the cluster.

> ⚠️ Make sure your GKE cluster uses  [`ubuntu_containerd`](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/node-images#ubuntu) as the default node operating system. This node operating system image has the required kernel modules available for Ondat to run successfully.

## Procedure

### Step 1 - Conducting Preflight Checks

* Run the following command to conduct preflight checks against the GKE cluster to validate that Ondat prerequisites have been met before attempting an installation.

```bash
kubectl storageos preflight
```

### Step 2 - Installing Ondat

1. Define and export the `STORAGEOS_USERNAME` and `STORAGEOS_PASSWORD` environment variables that will be used to manage your Ondat instance.

```bash
export STORAGEOS_USERNAME="storageos"
export STORAGEOS_PASSWORD="storageos"
```

2. Run the following  `kubectl-storageos` plugin command to install Ondat.

```bash
kubectl storageos install \
  --include-etcd \
  --etcd-tls-enabled \
  --admin-username="$STORAGEOS_USERNAME" \
  --admin-password="$STORAGEOS_PASSWORD"
```

* The installation process may take a few minutes.

### Step 3 - Verifying Ondat Installation

* Run the following `kubectl` commands to inspect Ondat's resources (the core components should all be in a `RUNNING` status)

```bash
kubectl get all --namespace=storageos
kubectl get all --namespace=storageos-etcd
kubectl get storageclasses | grep "storageos"
```

### Step 4 - Applying a Licence to the Cluster

> ⚠️ Newly installed Ondat clusters must be licensed within 24 hours. Our personal licence is free, and supports up to 1 TiB of provisioned storage.

To obtain a licence, follow the instructions on our [licensing operations](/docs/operations/licensing) page.

Commit message:

added a small note for the anthos install page

docs/install/google-kubernetes-engine-gke.md, after:

---
title: "Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)"
linkTitle: "Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)"
weight: 1
---

## Overview

This guide will demonstrate how to install Ondat onto a [Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine) cluster using the [Ondat kubectl plugin](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/).

> 💡 For users who are looking to deploy Ondat onto a [Google Anthos](https://cloud.google.com/anthos) cluster, a recommendation would be to review [Google Anthos installation guide](https://docs.ondat.io/docs/install/anthos/) for more information.

## Prerequisites

> ⚠️ Make sure you have met the minimum resource requirements for Ondat to successfully run. Review the main [Ondat prerequisites](/docs/prerequisites/) page for more information.

> ⚠️ Make sure the following CLI utilities are installed on your local machine and are available in your `$PATH`:

* [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)
* [kubectl-storageos](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/)

> ⚠️ Make sure to add an [Ondat licence](/docs/operations/licensing/) after installing.

> ⚠️ Make sure you have a running GKE cluster with a minimum of 3 worker nodes and the sufficient [Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) permissions to deploy and manage applications in the cluster.

> ⚠️ Make sure your GKE cluster uses  [`ubuntu_containerd`](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/node-images#ubuntu) as the default node operating system. This node operating system image has the required kernel modules available for Ondat to run successfully.

## Procedure

### Step 1 - Conducting Preflight Checks

* Run the following command to conduct preflight checks against the GKE cluster to validate that Ondat prerequisites have been met before attempting an installation.

```bash
kubectl storageos preflight
```

### Step 2 - Installing Ondat

1. Define and export the `STORAGEOS_USERNAME` and `STORAGEOS_PASSWORD` environment variables that will be used to manage your Ondat instance.

```bash
export STORAGEOS_USERNAME="storageos"
export STORAGEOS_PASSWORD="storageos"
```

2. Run the following  `kubectl-storageos` plugin command to install Ondat.

```bash
kubectl storageos install \
  --include-etcd \
  --etcd-tls-enabled \
  --admin-username="$STORAGEOS_USERNAME" \
  --admin-password="$STORAGEOS_PASSWORD"
```

* The installation process may take a few minutes.

### Step 3 - Verifying Ondat Installation

* Run the following `kubectl` commands to inspect Ondat's resources (the core components should all be in a `RUNNING` status)

```bash
kubectl get all --namespace=storageos
kubectl get all --namespace=storageos-etcd
kubectl get storageclasses | grep "storageos"
```

### Step 4 - Applying a Licence to the Cluster

> ⚠️ Newly installed Ondat clusters must be licensed within 24 hours. Our personal licence is free, and supports up to 1 TiB of provisioned storage.

To obtain a licence, follow the instructions on our [licensing operations](/docs/operations/licensing) page.
