docs/install/kubernetes.md, before:

---
title: "Kubernetes"
linkTitle: "Kubernetes"
weight: 10
description: >
   Walkthrough guide to install Ondat onto a generic Kubernetes Cluster.
---
## Overview

This guide will demonstrate how to install Ondat onto a [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/) cluster using the [Ondat kubectl plugin](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/) or [Helm Chart](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
  
For users who are looking to deploy Ondat onto a managed/specific Kubernetes distribution such AKS, EKS, GKE, RKE or DOKS, a recommendation would be to review the [Install](https://docs.ondat.io/docs/install/) section and choose the appropriate installation guide for your Kubernetes distribution.

## Prerequisites

### 1 - Cluster and Node Prerequisites

The minimum cluster requirements for a **non-production installation** of ondat are as follows:

* Linux with a 64-bit architecture
* 2 vCPU and 8GB of memory
* 3 worker nodes in the cluster and sufficient [Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) permissions to deploy and manage applications in the cluster
* Make sure the OS on your nodes are compatible with Ondat. See the [Ondat Prerequisites](https://docs.ondat.io/docs/prerequisites/) for all supported linus distributions.

For a comprehensive list of prerequisites and how to build a **production installation** of Ondat please refer to [Ondat Prerequisites](https://docs.ondat.io/docs/prerequisites/)

### 2 - Client Tools Prerequisites

The following CLI utilities are installed on your local machine and available in your `$PATH`:

* [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)

Ondat can be installed either via Helm Chart or using our command-line tool.  Depending on which installation method you choose you will require either:

* [kubectl-storageos CLI](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/)
* [Helm 3 CLI](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

### 3 - Installing a Local Path Provisioner

Depending on the kubernetes distro you are using there may not be any CSI driver deployed. Run the following commands against the cluster to deploy a [Local Path Provisioner](https://github.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner) and make it the default storageclass to provide local storage for Ondat's embedded `etcd` cluster operator deployment.

```bash  
kubectl apply --filename="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner/v0.0.22/deploy/local-path-storage.yaml"
kubectl patch storageclass local-path -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"true"}}}'
```

Verify that the Local Path Provisioner was successfully deployed and ensure that that the deployment is in a  `RUNNING` status, run the following `kubectl` commands.

```bash
kubectl get pod --namespace=local-path-storage
kubectl get storageclass
```

## Installation of Ondat

### Step 1 - Adding a Cluster

The Ondat Portal is how you can license and get the commands for installing Ondat

* Either login or create an account on the [Ondat Portal](https://portal.ondat.io/)
* Choose the 'Install Ondat on your cluster' or 'Add cluster' options in the UI
* Add a Name for your cluster and where it is going to be located.  This will allow you to view the same prerequisites as are listed above

### Step 2 - Choosing the Installation Method

You can use either the [kubectl-storageos CLI](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/) or [Helm 3 CLI](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to install Ondat onto your cluster.  The most common way is to use Helm due to its popularity in the Kubernetes community, but both are fully supported and described below.

### Step 3a - Installing via Helm

The Ondat Portal UI will display the following cmd that can be used to install Ondat using Helm and is unique to your installation.  The screenshots below are just for reference.

![Helm Install](/images/docs/install/HelmInstall.png)

1. The first part of the commands adds the Ondat Helm repository and ensures a updated local cache.

![Helm Install part 1](/images/docs/install/HelmInstall-1.png)

2. The next part of the command installs Ondat with a set of basic install parameters that are sufficient for a basic trial installation.

![Helm Install part 2](/images/docs/install/HelmInstall-2.png)

3. The installation process may take a few minutes. The end of this guide contains information on verifying the installation and licensing.

### Step 3b - Installing via kubectl-storageos plugin

The Ondat Portal UI will display the following cmd that can be used to install Ondat using the `kubectl-storageos` plugin

![kubectl-storageos Install](/images/docs/install/PluginInstall.png)

This command provided by the Portal is unique to you and uses the `kubectl-storageos` plugin command with a set of basic install parameters that are sufficient for a basic trial installation. The installation process may take a few minutes.

![kubectl-storageos Install](/images/docs/install/PluginInstall-1.png)

### Step 4 - Verifying Ondat Installation

Run the following `kubectl` commands to inspect Ondat's resources (the core components should all be in a `RUNNING` status)

```bash
kubectl get all --namespace=storageos
kubectl get all --namespace=storageos-etcd
kubectl get storageclasses | grep "storageos"
```

Once all the components are up and running the output should look like this:

![Install Success](/images/docs/install/InstallSuccess.png)

### Step 5 - Applying a Licence to the Cluster

Newly installed Ondat clusters must be licensed within 24 hours. For details of our Community Edition and pricing see [here](https://www.ondat.io/pricing).

To licence your cluster with the community edition:

1. On the Clusters page select 'View Details'
1. Click on 'Change Licence'
1. In the following pop-up select the 'Community Licence' option then click 'Generate'

This process generates a licence and installs it for you. Now you are good to go!

Commit message:

Update after talking to Ferran
Removed the commands generated by the portal so they cannot be copied

docs/install/kubernetes.md, after:

---
title: "Kubernetes"
linkTitle: "Kubernetes"
weight: 10
description: >
   Walkthrough guide to install Ondat onto a generic Kubernetes Cluster.
---
## Overview

This guide will demonstrate how to install Ondat onto a [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/) cluster using the [Ondat kubectl plugin](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/) or [Helm Chart](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
  
For users who are looking to deploy Ondat onto a managed/specific Kubernetes distribution such AKS, EKS, GKE, RKE or DOKS, a recommendation would be to review the [Install](https://docs.ondat.io/docs/install/) section and choose the appropriate installation guide for your Kubernetes distribution.

## Prerequisites

### 1 - Cluster and Node Prerequisites

The minimum cluster requirements for a **non-production installation** of ondat are as follows:

* Linux with a 64-bit architecture
* 2 vCPU and 8GB of memory
* 3 worker nodes in the cluster and sufficient [Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) permissions to deploy and manage applications in the cluster
* Make sure the OS on your nodes are compatible with Ondat. See the [Ondat Prerequisites](https://docs.ondat.io/docs/prerequisites/) for all supported linus distributions.

For a comprehensive list of prerequisites and how to build a **production installation** of Ondat please refer to [Ondat Prerequisites](https://docs.ondat.io/docs/prerequisites/)

### 2 - Client Tools Prerequisites

The following CLI utilities are installed on your local machine and available in your `$PATH`:

* [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)

Ondat can be installed either via Helm Chart or using our command-line tool.  Depending on which installation method you choose you will require either:

* [kubectl-storageos CLI](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/)
* [Helm 3 CLI](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

### 3 - Installing a Local Path Provisioner

Depending on the kubernetes distro you are using there may not be any CSI driver deployed. Run the following commands against the cluster to deploy a [Local Path Provisioner](https://github.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner) and make it the default storageclass to provide local storage for Ondat's embedded `etcd` cluster operator deployment.

```bash  
kubectl apply --filename="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner/v0.0.22/deploy/local-path-storage.yaml"
kubectl patch storageclass local-path -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"true"}}}'
```

Verify that the Local Path Provisioner was successfully deployed and ensure that that the deployment is in a  `RUNNING` status, run the following `kubectl` commands.

```bash
kubectl get pod --namespace=local-path-storage
kubectl get storageclass
```

## Installation of Ondat

### Step 1 - Adding a Cluster

The Ondat Portal is how you can license and get the commands for installing Ondat

* Either login or create an account on the [Ondat Portal](https://portal.ondat.io/)
* Choose the 'Install Ondat on your cluster' or 'Add cluster' options in the UI
* Add a Name for your cluster and where it is going to be located.  This will allow you to view the same prerequisites as are listed above

### Step 2 - Choosing the Installation Method

You can use either the [kubectl-storageos CLI](/docs/reference/kubectl-plugin/) or [Helm 3 CLI](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to install Ondat onto your cluster.  The most common way is to use Helm due to its popularity in the Kubernetes community, but both are fully supported and described below.

### Step 3a - Installing via Helm

The Ondat Portal UI will display the following cmd that can be used to install Ondat using Helm and is unique to your installation.  The screenshots below are just for reference.

![Helm Install](/images/docs/install/HelmInstall.png)

The 2 lines of the command adds the Ondat Helm repository and ensures a updated local cache.  The remaining command installs Ondat via Helm with a set of basic install parameters that are sufficient for a basic trial installation.

The installation process may take a few minutes. The end of this guide contains information on verifying the installation and licensing.

### Step 3b - Installing via kubectl-storageos plugin

The Ondat Portal UI will display the following cmd that can be used to install Ondat using the `kubectl-storageos` plugin.  The command created will be unique for you and the screenshot below is just for reference.

![kubectl-storageos Install](/images/docs/install/PluginInstall.png)

This command that is provided by the Portal is unique to you and uses the `kubectl-storageos` plugin command with a set of basic install parameters that are sufficient for a basic trial installation. 

The installation process may take a few minutes. The end of this guide contains information on verifying the installation and licensing.

### Step 4 - Verifying Ondat Installation

Run the following `kubectl` commands to inspect Ondat's resources (the core components should all be in a `RUNNING` status)

```bash
kubectl get all --namespace=storageos
kubectl get all --namespace=storageos-etcd
kubectl get storageclasses | grep "storageos"
```

Once all the components are up and running the output should look like this:

![Install Success](/images/docs/install/InstallSuccess.png)

### Step 5 - Applying a Licence to the Cluster

Newly installed Ondat clusters must be licensed within 24 hours. For details of our Community Edition and pricing see [here](https://www.ondat.io/pricing).

To licence your cluster with the community edition:

1. On the Clusters page select 'View Details'
1. Click on 'Change Licence'
1. In the following pop-up select the 'Community Licence' option then click 'Generate'

This process generates a licence and installs it for you. Now you are good to go!
