docs/operations/using-rolling-upgrades.md, before:

---
linkTitle: Platform Upgrade
---

# Overview

This guide will demonstrate how to enable the orchestrator's rolling upgrades using the [Upgrade Guard](/docs/concepts/rolling-upgrades/#upgrade-guard) and [Node Manager](/docs/concepts/rolling-upgrades/#node-manager). This feature helps to prevent your persistent storage volumes from becoming unhealthy during an orchestrator update.
> ⚠️ This is a tech preview, we only recommend using this feature on your test clusters.

# Prerequisites

> ⚠️ Make sure you have met the requirements of [configuring a Pod Disruption Budget (PDB)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/configure-pdb/).

> ⚠️ If your volume does not have any replicas, the rolling upgrades feature will not start on any StorageOS node until you have one or more replicas on all your volumes.

> ⚠️ This feature supports the following platforms: AWS EKS, Google Anthos, Google GKE, Microsoft Azure, Openshift and Rancher.

> ⚠️ For Openshift: The PDB feature is only stable in kubernetes v1.21+ and Openshift v4.8+.

# Procedure

## Step 1 - Enable Node Manager and Upgrade Guard

* Add the following lines to the StorageOSCluster spec:

```
 nodeManagerFeatures:
   upgradeGuard: "true"
```

* Alternatively, you can run the following command:

  ```
  kubectl get storageoscluster -n storageos storageoscluster -o yaml | sed -e 's|^spec:$|spec:\n  nodeManagerFeatures:\n    upgradeGuard: "true"|' | kubectl apply -f - 
  ```

You will see new pods getting created, where one pod per node in a cluster called Node Manager.

## Step 2 - Rolling upgrade ready

Congratulations, you are now ready to start the rolling upgrade process of the orchestrator of your choice!

> ⚠️ GKE and AKS take care of the pod disruption budget for one hour. After this time period they drain the node, which would destroy the volume.

> ⚠️ EKS takes care on PDB for 50 mins, after this period upgrade would fail unless it was forced.

Commit message:

Update rolling upgrade docs to tech-preview

docs/operations/using-rolling-upgrades.md, after:

---
linkTitle: Platform Upgrade
---

# Overview

This guide will demonstrate how to enable protection for your orchestrator's rolling upgrades using the [Upgrade Guard](/docs/concepts/rolling-upgrades/#upgrade-guard) and [Node Manager](/docs/concepts/rolling-upgrades/#node-manager). This feature helps prevent your persistent storage volumes from becoming unhealthy during the rolling downtime of an orchestrator upgrade.

> ⚠️ This feature is currently in tech preview, we only recommend using this feature on your test clusters.

# Prerequisites

> ⚠️ Make sure you have met the requirements of [configuring a Pod Disruption Budget (PDB)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/configure-pdb/).

> ⚠️ If your volume does not have any replicas, the rolling upgrades feature will not start on any StorageOS node until you have one or more replicas on all your volumes.

> ⚠️ This feature supports the following platforms: Google Anthos, Google GKE with future support to be expanded to Amazon EKS, Openshift and Rancher.

> ⚠️ For Openshift: The PDB feature is only stable in kubernetes v1.21+ and Openshift v4.8+.

# Procedure

## Step 1 - Enable Node Manager and Upgrade Guard

* Add the following lines to the StorageOSCluster spec:

```
 nodeManagerFeatures:
   upgradeGuard: "true"
```

* Alternatively, you can run the following command:

  ```
  kubectl get storageoscluster -n storageos storageoscluster -o yaml | sed -e 's|^spec:$|spec:\n  nodeManagerFeatures:\n    upgradeGuard: "true"|' | kubectl apply -f - 
  ```

You will see new pods getting created, where one pod per node in a cluster called Node Manager.

## Step 2 - Rolling upgrade ready

Congratulations, you are now ready to start the rolling upgrade process of your orchestrator!

> ⚠️ GKE and AKS take care of the pod disruption budget for one hour. After this time period they drain the node, which would destroy the volume.

> ⚠️ EKS takes care on PDB for 50 mins, after this period upgrade would fail unless it was forced.
